# identPy_GUI

This repository contains the GUI application developed for **[identPy](https://github.com/gnegrelli/identPy)**, a 
framework for parameter estimation of nonlinear dynamic systems. This application was created using PySide2.

## Installation

Install the GUI requirements by executing the following command on the terminal:

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

To start the GUI application, simply run the script `main.py` located on the root directory of this repository.

The initial page will be displayed with some information about the software.

<!-- Add image here -->

Next, a page for model selection is shown. In this page, the user will choose, from a list indicated by "1", which model 
will be estimated. In "2", the user will be able to select the file containing the measured data used in the estimation 
process. In "3", the user must identify which column of the data file corresponds to the inputs and outputs and what are
initial conditions of states. In "4", a short text with information about the model selected is displayed.

<!-- Add image here -->

On the next page, the user will be able to select the estimation methods that will be applied. The method selected in 
"5" this field will be the first applied by the estimation tool. In "6", the user can indicate that the estimation will
be conducted by two methods in cascade, and the second method to be applied can be selected in "7".

<!-- Add image here -->

The configuration of the chosen methods is done on the following windows. Each method has its own custom configuration 
page based on a template. Below is presented the MVMO configuration page. For this method, the user must set general 
configurations, such as population size, number of offspring and tolerance. These general configurations are set on the 
fields indicated by "8". The user must also define what are the limits of the search region, which are set on the 
fields identified by "9". These fields change according to the choice made by the user on the model selection page.

<!-- Add image here -->

With all set, the estimation process can start. The next page shows the current results of the estimation in three tabs. 
The first one contains graphs depicting the outputs from the real system and the current solution. The "Parameters" tab 
presents the current value of the parameters estimated by the software. A log with information of how the estimation 
process evolved is displayed in the last tab.

<!-- Add image here -->

## Contributing

Users are welcome to contribute to identPy with new methods, models and pages.

### Page design

It is recommended to use Qt5 Designer tool in order to create new pages and modify existing ones. It can be installed 
by executing the following command:

```bash
$ sudo apt install qttools5-dev-tools
```

In order to convert the ui files generated by Qt5 Designer into python code, use the following command on terminal:

```bash
$ pyside2-uic ui_file.ui -o python_file.py
```
